=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

OpenTelemetry::Guides::Quickstart - Get telemetry from your app in less than 5 minutes!

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This page will show you how to get started with L<OpenTelemetry> in Perl.

You will learn how you can instrument a simple application, in such a way that
L<traces|https://opentelemetry.io/docs/concepts/signals/traces> are emitted
to the console.

=head1 EXAMPLE APPLICATION

The following example uses a basic L<Mojolicious> application. If you are not
using Mojolicious, that's OK. You can use OpenTelemetry Perl with other web
frameworks as well, such as Dancer2 and Plack. For a complete list of
libraries for supported frameworks, see the
L<registry|https://opentelemetry.io/ecosystem/registry/?component=instrumentation&language=perl>.

For more examples, including the code described below, see
our other L<examples|https://github.com/jjatria/perl-opentelemetry/tree/main/examples>.

=head2 Dependencies

To begin, install Mojolicious:

    cpanm Mojolicious

=head2 Create the application

Create a new "lite" application called C<Dice>. You can also use a full
application, but this should be enough to illustrate the process:

    mojo generate lite_app Dice

Open the newly generated C<Dice> file with your preferred editor and update
it with the following code:

    #!/usr/bin/env perl
    use Mojolicious::Lite -signatures;

    get '/roll' => sub ($c) {
      $c->render( json => int 1 + rand 6 );
    };

    app->start;

Run the application with the following command and open
L<http://localhost:3000/roll> in your web browser to ensure it is working.

    ./Dice daemon

If everything works fine you should see a number between 1 and 6 returned to
you. You can now stop the application and instrument it using OpenTelemetry.

=head2 Instrumentation

Install the L<OpenTelemetry::SDK> and L<Mojolicious::Plugin::OpenTelemetry>
packages:

    cpanm OpenTelemetry::SDK Mojolicious::Plugin::OpenTelemetry

OpenTelemetry should be initialised as early as possible. If loading the
SDK with the C<use> keyword, this will guarantee that configuration takes
place during the C<BEGIN> phase, which happens before your application
starts up.

Modify your application to load the SDK and enable the Mojolicious
integration plugin:

    #!/usr/bin/env perl
    use Mojolicious::Lite -signatures;

    use OpenTelemetry::SDK;
    plugin 'OpenTelemetry';

    get '/roll' => sub ($c) {
      $c->render( json => int 1 + rand 6 );
    };

    app->start;

=head2 Run the instrumented app

You can now run your instrumented app and have it print to the console for
now:

    OTEL_TRACES_EXPORTER=console ./Dice daemon

Open L<http://localhost:3000/roll> in your web browser and reload the page a
few times. You should see the spans printed in the console, such as the
following (pretty printed here for clarity):

    {
        'attributes' => {
            'client.address' => '127.0.0.1',
            'client.port' => '33940',
            'http.request.method' => 'GET',
            'http.response.status_code' => 200,
            'http.route' => '/roll',
            'network.protocol.version' => '1.1',
            'server.address' => 'localhost',
            'server.port' => '3000',
            'url.path' => '/roll',
            'user_agent.original' => 'curl/7.81.0'
        },
        'dropped_attributes' => 0,
        'dropped_events' => 0,
        'dropped_links' => 0,
        'end_timestamp' => '1731063350.62094',
        'events' => [],
        'instrumentation_scope' => {
            'name' => 'Dice',
            'version' => ''
        },
        'kind' => 2,
        'links' => [],
        'name' => 'GET /roll',
        'parent_span_id' => '0000000000000000',
        'resource' => {
            'process.command' => './Dice',
            'process.command_args' => [
                'daemon'
            ],
            'process.executable.name' => 'perl',
            'process.executable.path' => '/home/user/.perl/perls/perl-5.40.0/bin/perl',
            'process.pid' => 2035718,
            'process.runtime.name' => 'perl',
            'process.runtime.version' => 'v5.40.0',
            'telemetry.sdk.language' => 'perl',
            'telemetry.sdk.name' => 'opentelemetry',
            'telemetry.sdk.version' => '0.024'
        },
        'span_id' => '7363cd7eb6b4adb0',
        'start_timestamp' => '1731063350.62022',
        'status' => {
            'code' => 0,
            'description' => ''
        },
        'trace_flags' => 1,
        'trace_id' => '84dd369e4961f076a6c437a16a1e6107',
        'trace_state' => ''
    }

=head2 What next?

Adding tracing to a single service is a great first step. OpenTelemetry
provides a few more features that will allow you gain even deeper insights!

=over

=item *

L<OpenTelemetry::Guides::Exporters|Exporters> allow you to export your
data to a preferred backend.

=item *

L<Context propagation|OpenTelemetry::Guides::Instrumentation/Context Propagation>
is perhaps one of the most powerful concepts in OpenTelemetry because it will
upgrade your single service trace into a I<distributed trace>, which makes it
possible for OpenTelemetry vendors to visualise a request from end-to-end
across process and network boundaries.

=item *

L<Span events|OpenTelemetry::Guides::Instrumentation/Add Span Events> allow
you to add a human-readable message on a span that represents "something
happening" during its lifetime.

=item *

L<OpenTelemetry::Guides::Instrumentation> will give provide you the ability
to enrich your traces with domain specific data.

=item *

L<The OpenTelemetry Demo|https://opentelemetry.io/docs/demo> provides a full working system of
services spanning several languages that showcases the versatility of
OpenTelemetry. The fork at L<https://github.com/jjatria/opentelemetry-demo/tree/perl>
includes a Perl port of the L<Email Service|https://opentelemetry.io/docs/demo/services/email>.

=back

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This document is copyright (c) 2024 by José Joaquín Atria.

It is based on the original OpenTelemetry documentation for Ruby which is
(c) OpenTelemetry Authors and available at
L<https://opentelemetry.io/docs/languages/ruby>. It has been modified to
fit the Perl implementation.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the same
terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.
