=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

OpenTelemetry::Trace::Event - An event associated with an OpenTelemetry span

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use OpenTelemetry::Trace::Event;

    my $event = OpenTelemetry::Trace::Event->new(
        name       => $event_name,
        attributes => \%attributes,
    );

    # Or more realistically
    use OpenTelemetry;

    my $span = OpenTelemetry->tracer_provider->tracer->create_span(...);

    ...

    $span->add_event(
        name       => 'my event',
        attributes => \%attributes,
    );

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Spans created by a L<OpenTelemetry::Trace::Tracer> (or one of its subclasses)
may record zero or more events. Events can represent all sorts of matters of
interest, and the most common ones have been given some standardised names
and set of attributes. Please refer to the
L<Semantic Conventions|https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blob/main/specification/trace/semantic_conventions/README.md>
document for details on which these are.

Probably the most common event will be exceptions added through a method like
L<OpenTelemetry::Trace::Span/record_exception>.

=head1 METHODS

This class implements the L<OpenTelemetry::Attributes> role. Please consult
that module's documentation for details on the behaviours it provides.

=head2 new

    my $event = OpenTelemetry::Trace::Event->new(
        name       => $event_name,
        timestamp  => $timestamp // time,
        attributes => \%attributes,
    );

Create a new event. The name parameter is required and must be set to a string
that will identify this event. Note that some event names have standardised
meanings. Refer to the
L<Semantic Conventions|https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blob/main/specification/trace/semantic_conventions/README.md>
for details on what these are and what they represent.

The constructor accepts an optional timestamp argument to represent the time
at which this event took place. If not provided, the timestamp will be the one
at which the event was created. Note that events associated with a span may
have a timestamp that took place before their span started, or after it ended.

While the constructor allows you to create events, users will most likely
create events on a span using L<OpenTelemetry::Trace::Span/add_event> instead.

=head2 name

    $name = $event->name;

Reads the name given to this event when created.

=head2 timestamp

    $timestamp = $event->timestamp;

Reads the timestamp associated with this event.

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over

=item L<OpenTelemetry::Attributes>

=item L<OpenTelemetry::Trace::Span>

=item L<OpenTelemetry Semantic Conventions|https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blob/main/specification/trace/semantic_conventions/README.md>

=back

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

...

