=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

OpenTelemetry::Trace::SpanContext - The part of an OpenTelemetry span that propagates

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use OpenTelemetry;

    my $span = OpenTelemetry->tracer_provider->tracer->create_span(...);

    $span_context = $span->context;

    say 'Span ID:  ' . $span_context->hex_span_id;
    say 'Trace ID: ' . $span_context->hex_trace_id;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This module represents the portion of a L<OpenTelemetry::Trace::Span> that must
be serialised and propagated as part of a distributed context. This object is
immutable.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 new

    $span_context = OpenTelemetry::Trace::SpanContex->new(
        trace_flags => $trace_flags, # optional
        trace_state => $trace_state, # optional
        trace_id    => $trace_id,    # optional
        span_id     => $span_id,     # optional
        remote      => $remote // 0,
    );

Returns a new L<OpenTelemetry::Trace::SpanContext> object. Takes a the
following named parameters, all of which are optional:

=over

=item span_id

An 8-byte binary ID for the span this span context should be connected to.
Defaults to a new random trace ID as returned by
L<OpenTelemetry::Trace/generate_span_id>.

=item trace_id

A 16-byte binary ID for the trace this span context should be connected to.
Defaults to a new random trace ID as returned by
L<OpenTelemetry::Trace/generate_trace_id>.

=item trace_state

An instance of L<OpenTelemetry::Propagator::TraceContext::TraceState> carrying
vendor-specific trace identification data. See that module's documentation for
more details. Defaults to an empty trace state.

=item trace_flags

An instance of L<OpenTelemetry::Propagator::TraceContext::TraceFlags> with
details about the trace. See that module's documentation for more details.
Defaults to an empty set of flags.

=item remote

A boolean value which should be set to true if this span context was received
from an external source, of false if this was locally generated. Defaults to
false.

=back

=head2 span_id

    $id = $span_context->span_id;

Returns the binary span ID that was set (or generated) at construction time.

=head2 trace_id

    $id = $span_context->trace_id;

Returns the binary trace ID that was set (or generated) at construction time.

=head2 trace_state

    $state = $span_context->trace_state;

Returns the L<OpenTelemetry::Propagator::TraceContext::TraceState> object set
(or generated) at construction time.

=head2 trace_flags

    $flags = $span_context->trace_flags;

Returns the L<OpenTelemetry::Propagator::TraceContext::TraceFlags> object set
(or generated) at construction time.

=head2 remote

    $bool = $span_context->remote;

Returns the value set at construction time, which will be true if this span
context was received from an external source, or false if it was locally
generated.

=head2 valid

    $bool = $span_context->valid;

Returns true if the span context's L</span_id> and L</trace_id> are both
valid. For them to be valid, they must both have at least one non-zero byte.

=head2 hex_trace_id

    $string = $span_context->hex_trace_id;

Returns this span context's L</trace_id> as a hexadecimal lowercase string.

=head2 hex_span_id

    $string = $span_context->hex_span_id;

Returns this span context's L</span_id> as a hexadecimal lowercase string.

=head1 CONSTANTS

=head2 INVALID

Returns a OpenTelemetry::Trace::SpanContext object on which method calls
can be made, but that can be recognised as not representing a real, valid
span context.

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over

=item L<OpenTelemetry::Trace>

=item L<OpenTelemetry::Trace::Span>

=item L<OpenTelemetry::Propagator::TraceContext::TraceState>

=item L<OpenTelemetry::Propagator::TraceContext::TraceFlags>

=item L<OpenTelemetry specification on SpanContext|https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blob/main/specification/trace/api.md#spancontext>

=back

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

...

