=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

OpenTelemetry::Trace - Generic methods for the OpenTelemetry Tracing API

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use OpenTelemetry::Trace;

    # Retrieve a span from context
    my $span = OpenTelemetry::Trace->span_from_context;

    # Store a span in the context
    my $context = OpenTelemetry::Trace->context_with_span($span);

    # This is a no-op, since we are retrieving the span we stored
    $span = OpenTelemetry::Trace->span_from_context($context);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This package provides some methods for injecting L<Span> objects into, and
extracting them from, a given L<context|OpenTelemetry::Context>.

For the meat and bones of the OpenTelemetry Tracing API, please see the
following packages:

=over

=item L<OpenTelemetry::Trace::TracerProvider>, which provides access to
      L<tracers|OpenTelemetry::Trace::Tracer>.

=item L<OpenTelemetry::Trace::Tracer>, which can create
      L<spans|OpenTelemetry::Trace::Span>.

=item L<OpenTelemetry::Trace::Span>, which allows the trace of a single
      operation.

=back

=head1 METHODS

=head2 span_from_context

    $span = OpenTelemetry::Trace->span_from_context($context);

Takes an optional L<OpenTelemetry::Context> object, and returns the
L<OpenTelemetry::Trace::Span> object that has been stored within, if any. If
no context was provided, the span will be read from the current context.

If no span was found in the context, this method returns an invalid span
(see L<below|/INVALID_SPAN_ID>).

=head2 context_with_span

    $context = OpenTelemetry::Trace->context_with_span( $span, $context );

Takes a L<OpenTelemetry::Trace::Span> and returns a context that contains it
(such that passing that context to eg. L<span_from_context|/span_from_context>
would return the provided span).

An optional L<OpenTelemetry::Context> instance can be passed as a second
argument, in which case it will be used as the base for the new context. If no
context is provided, the L<current context|OpenTelemetry::Context/current>
will be used.

=head2 non_recording_span

    $span = OpenTelemetry::Trace->non_recording_span($span_context)

Returns an instance of L<OpenTelemetry::Trace::Span> that records no trace
data. Operations on this span are effectively a no-op.

Takes an instance of L<OpenTelemetry::Trace::SpanContext> to use as the
context of the span. If none is provided, it will default to a new instance.

=head2 generate_trace_id

    $id = OpenTelemetry::Trace->generate_trace_id;

Generate a new random trace ID. This ID is guaranteed to be valid.

=head2 generate_span_id

    $id = OpenTelemetry::Trace->generate_span_id;

Generate a new random span ID. This ID is guaranteed to be valid.

=head2 untraced_context

    $new_context = OpenTelemetry::Trace->untraced_context($context);

Returns a new L<OpenTelemetry::Context> instance which is marked as untraced.
This can be used together with the L<is_untraced_context|/is_untraced_context>
method below to locally disable tracing for internal operations:

    dynamically OpenTelemetry::Context->current
        = OpenTelemetry::Trace->untraced_context;

This method takes an optional L<OpenTelemetry::Context> to use as the base
context. If none is provided, the current context will be used.

=head2 is_untraced_context

    $bool = OpenTelemetry::Trace->is_untraced_context($context);

Takes an L<OpenTelemetry::Context> instance and checks if it is marked as an
untraced context (see the L<untraced_context|/untraced_context> method above).
If no context is provided, the current context will be used.

Returns true if this is an untraced context, or false otherwise.

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over

=item L<OpenTelemetry::Trace::TracerProvider>

=item L<OpenTelemetry::Trace::Tracer>

=item L<OpenTelemetry::Trace::Span>

=back

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

...

