=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

OpenTelemetry::Propagator::TraceContext::TraceParent - Represents a TraceParent in a W3C TraceContext

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use OpenTelemetry;
    use OpenTelemetry::Propagator::TraceContext::TraceParent;

    my $span = OpenTelemetry->span_from_context;
    my $traceparent = OpenTelemetry::Propagator::TraceContext::TraceParent
        ->from_span_context( $span->context );

    my $roundtrip = OpenTelemetry::Propagator::TraceContext::TraceParent
        ->from_string( $traceparent->to_string );

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This class can be used to represent the trace parent as defined in a
L<W3C TraceContext|https://w3c.github.io/trace-context>. It contains methods
to parse C<traceparent> header strings, as well as to generate them.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 new

    $new = OpenTelemetry::Propagator::TraceContext::TraceParent->new(
        trace_id    => $trace_id,
        span_id     => $span_id,
        trace_flags => $trace_flags,
        version     => $version // 0,
    );

Constructs a new trace parent from scratch. Takes the following named parameters:

=over

=item span_id

An 8-byte binary ID for the span this span context should be connected to.
Defaults to a new random trace ID as returned by
L<OpenTelemetry::Trace/generate_span_id>.

=item trace_id

A 16-byte binary ID for the trace this span context should be connected to.
Defaults to a new random trace ID as returned by
L<OpenTelemetry::Trace/generate_trace_id>.

=item trace_flags

An instance of L<OpenTelemetry::Propagator::TraceContext::TraceFlags> with
details about the trace. See that module's documentation for more details.
Defaults to an empty set of flags.
=over

=item version

A numeric version identifier. Defaults to 0, which at the moment of writing
is the only version in existence.

=back

This raw constructor is mostly of used internally. Most commonly, a trace
parent will be constructed either from the data in a
L<OpenTelemetry::Trace::SpanContext> with the L<from_span_context>, or from
a header string with L</from_string>. Both of these constructors are described
inn more detail below.

=head2 from_span_context

    $new = OpenTelemetry::Propagator::TraceContext::TraceParent->from_span_context(
        $span_context,
    );

Takes a positional L<OpenTelemetry::Trace::SpanContext> and constructs a new
trace parent from the data it contains.

=head2 from_string

    $new = OpenTelemetry::Propagator::TraceContext::TraceParent->from_string(
        $header_string
    );

Takes a positional string, such as the one that could be found in a
C<traceparent> header. This method will parse the string and return the
trace parent that string represents.

See L</to_string> below for a way to generate this string.

=head2 to_string

    $string = $traceparent->to_string;

Returns the trace parent stringified as defined in the
L<W3C TraceContext format|https://w3c.github.io/trace-context>. This string is
suitable to be used as the value eg. in a header for further propagation.

Passing this string to L</from_string> will return an equivalent trace parent.

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over

=item L<OpenTelemetry::Trace>

=item L<OpenTelemetry::Propagator::TraceContext>

=item L<OpenTelemetry::Propagator::TraceContext::TraceFlags>

=item L<OpenTelemetry::Trace::SpanContext>

=item L<W3C TraceContext format|https://w3c.github.io/trace-context>

=back

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

...

